This programme contains
very strong language.
I'm the Minister
for fucking Social Affairs.
Hugh Abbott. Problems?
Terri, explain that I'm the reason
they're here.
So sorry about that.
That's all right.
Amazing place. Welcome back.
Thank you. Welcome back to you too.
It's ironic - were both back
on the same day.
Although your reasons
for being away were rather more...
important than my frivolous holiday.
No...
It was fantastic though.
You can't go wrong with Italy.
But how are you?
Really upset,
actually, and sad about it.
That your father had died...
Cos my father had died.
Yup. Anyway, shall we...?
We're upstairs.
..get a bit of a wiggle on, yes.
So, this is like a sort of
governing mall.
There's actually a few problems.
The e-mail system isn't working and
then the intelligent ventilation...
Intelligent ventilation?
At the moment we've got a wind
tunnel in the asylum directorate.
Oh, no. Don't let any of
those out as diary stories.
This is us.
Right. Bit too
light and airy for my liking.
Oh, and these are awful.
Do we have to have those?
They look like Alicia's Barbie
furniture. Do you think they match?
Not with that dress.
One of them'll have to go
and I'd rather it was the sofas.
Oh, OK. Is this us?
Yes, this is actually you.
Excuse me, isn't that
David Dickinson? Ooh, nice tan!
I can't take all the credit,
cos the sun did most of the work.
Not much privacy, is there?
We'll be moving upstairs in a week.
It's gonna be bloody hard to shoot
up in there. Yeah, that's true.
It's just so pokey.
Hugh, we're not gonna be here long.
Hugh, Robyn's just given me
the date for your appearance before
the Education Select Committee -
it's tomorrow.
Oh, great(!) Oh, that is great.
Yes, welcome home, Hugh.
Couldn't you have given me
something a bit more cushy
for my first week back?
A couple of lunches or a fact finder
to Dublin or something?
That's the date they gave me. You
can't change select committee dates.
So how did Liam get his changed
to go to the bloody Test Match?
It's like sitting on a tea crate
having chicken shit sprayed over me.
I mean, why do we want to close down
schools for kids with special needs?
It's the one thing that I really
do not want to do,
and yet, bizarrely, I'm the person
intimately involved in doing it.
Robyn, go and see IT about the
e-mail
problem, please. That'd be great.
So now Terri's back, I just get
all the dull stuff, is that right?
Pretty much, yes.
Oh, right, well, of course.
Well, I'll see you later.
Glenn, the Special Needs Bill,
with your...
particular interest,
I can't do this.
You know my views - inclusion
is an illusion, it doesn't work.
But you don't mind if I go ahead
with it? Of course not.
Look...you're only following orders.
Oh, thanks. So you won't make me
feel bad except by comparing me
to a concentration camp guard?
No, right, yeah.
Tomorrow, Select Committee,
that's Ballentine, isn't it?
Who wants to go and watch
Bollock-Vision? What?
Mr Malcolm Tucker turning it all
the way up to 11 in the lobby.
The biggest problem we've got is guys
like you blabbing their mouth off.
Poor Keith. Malcolm
must fucking love this place -
four ministers in one building.
It's his dream -
a one-stop bollock shop.
We're gonna be getting
some of that in about an hour.
You understand me? I don't know
what's worse - watching him slowly
rumble towards you
like prostate cancer or him
appearing suddenly out of nowhere
like a severe stroke.
Oh. How's your sister coping?
So, this new word "citizenship" -
did the PM actually
outline what it entails?
I think he was making the reshuffle
up as he went along
and I think we were very lucky
that citizenship was the first
word that sprang to mind.
We could be the Department for
Social Affairs and Woodland Folk.
Problem is though, Hugh,
that there's been a bit of a rush.
With you not in place,
every department trying to unload
all the stuff they didn't want.
It's been like someone driving
down Whitehall shouting,
"Bring out your shit!"
and it's ended up at our door.
So what are we getting?
Citizenship basically involves
cutting pensions to the Gurkhas,
rejigging the protocols for rabies
outbreaks, some crap from Health
about long-term care for the elderly
that neither they nor we
have any real idea about...
And everything to do
with the Isle of Man.
Just what I fucking need -
five new ways to lose my job.
Where did that come from?
Malcolm sent that.
It's far too big, why did he send
it? Office warming present.
Why did he send us a present?
I don't know.
Has security checked this?
What for, tiny little terrorists?
Yes. It's a plant. Yes?!
So, citizenshit - what we need
to do is knock together some nice,
touchy-feely, fondly, sneaky,
hand-in-the-bra policies.
New bicycles for special constables,
that sort of thing?
Making special needs kids clean up
graffiti. That's just very mean.
Well, yes. Not as mean as
making them spell graffiti,
that genuinely is very mean.
I'll go and have
a word with Malcolm. OK.
You just took a shit
with your clothes on, Ollie.
Why? What...? Glenn's boy, Peter, he
went to a special needs school. Oh.
Yeah.
Glenn's had sex?
God, you're such a prick, Ollie.
It's just a joke...
There's more to life than having
Nick Robinson's mobile number
on your fucking Blackberry.
All right, fine, sorry, Hugh. I
feel for the guy. I had a girlfriend
with special needs once, so...
Luckily, I was able to fulfil them.
God, you're such a...
Haircut? Chemo. (Knob.)
Did you enjoy the show?
You were magnificent, darling.
Should I phone Keith so that his
team can watch you bollock me now?
No, no. Have I got
my bollocking face on? Well...
No, this is my bollocking face.
Ooh, crikey, yes. Thanks for
the pot plant, by the way.
Did I send that?
As an office warming present.
Christ, she's a great PA,
isn't she, Sam?
She always remembers
the little people.
Look at the size of that - you could
fucking crucify somebody on that.
So, what do you think
of the new building, eh?
I can't wait to move upstairs
because I don't really like
the glass walls on this floor.
I just feel a bit exposed.
Like a whore in a Reeperbahn window.
Glenn, it's Ollie,
he wants you to go through and
clarify the citizenship brief.
How much, love? Sorry?
OK, I'm on it.
Catch you later.
I like the tan, by the way.
Thank you. Have you declared it?
Staying at the villa of an
influential friend? I haven't got any
influential friends, Malcolm.
You are my only influential friend.
And I'm not really your friend.
You're not really my friend.
So, this Super Schools Bill...
You don't think it's so super,
do you?
You're doing it now.
What?
That's your bollocking face.
You know, it's great you get
all misty-eyed over Glenn's kid,
but no-one's trying to fuck over
special needs kids.
Wh...Really?
Before I went away, I consulted
an expert, Mark Ryan, and he...
The LSE education guy? What did that
sandal-wearing nonce have to say?
He said that closing down
special needs schools
and putting needy kids into
mainstream education
is a lousy idea.
But I've got an expert
who will deny that.
And SEN parents
want the special schools kept open.
Yeah, well, my expert would
totally oppose that.
Who is your expert? I've no idea,
but I can get one by this afternoon.
You have spoken to the wrong expert,
you've gotta ask the right expert.
And you've gotta know what
an expert's gonna advise you
before he advises you.
Hugh, whether you like this or not,
you are gonna have to promote
this bill,
so what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna
get you another expert, yeah?
OK.
Surely, Mr Smedley,
inclusion has been shown to fail
the most vulnerable SEN children?
When inclusion's done badly,
yes, you're gonna get bad results,
that's a given.
Inclusion is an illusion.
Mark Ryan from the LSE was saying
that when the special schools
do get it right,
that the parents of SEN children
absolutely fucking flock to...
You spoke to Mark Ryan? Yeah,
I was taking expert advice, so...
Expert advice from Mark Ryan? Yeah.
You have a problem with Mark Ryan?
In educational circles, he's a bit
of a joke. That's another given.
Is it?
NEW MAIL ARRIVES
Sorry.
It's just that I'm expecting
something quite important.
Is our e-mail up and running? No.
No, no, this is my Hotmail.
Sorry, can you excuse me just...?
We live in an inclusive society,
am I right?
Indeed. So let's not let the
Mark Ryans of this world create
an ability apartheid for children.
The alternative is to isolate
these kids in ghetto schools.
The minister won't be a moment.
OLLIE: Good spot for a suicide, this.
Good, long drop,
appreciative audience.
What if you just broke your back?
You'd be paralysed for life
and you'd still be depressed
about the thing that was
depressing you in the first place.
What are these hangy-down things?
They're acoustic baffles,
they stop it getting too echoey.
So when you break your back,
nobody can hear you screaming?
That is the kind
of attention to detail
that you get in a PFI building.
MALCOLM: Hey!
Get back to work, all of you!
I'm off to Number 10 for this
Cabinet summit with the PM
and wonky Ron from education,
try and swing this
Special Needs Bill around.
If it drags on,
can you phone home and tell Kate?
Cos she doesn't watch rolling news,
because...well,
she's a normal human being.
Yes, Massa, I's a good slave.
Can I just say...?
Something absolutely,
cataclysmically bad has happened.
Whoa, slow down, what's going on?
I've just had a phone call
from a man, he's got a child,
he lives in Reigate. Gosh.
This child, she is called Glenn
after Glenn Close
and her surname is Cullen.
She's Glenn Cullen. And this
morning, apparently, in her in...
In the e-mail tray,
she got a note
and it used these words, "Christ"
and "cunt"
and apparently, I sent it. No!
Anybody could use that computer.
Hugh, Glenn says could you
head over? Yes, I must go.
Ollie was using it earlier.
You were using my computer.
Did you send an e-mail this morning
about me, calling me a cunt?
No, no, I never use that word.
No, absolutely, I won't use it
until it's been fully normalised
and has no further association
with the female twat.
It was you!
We'll get to the bottom of this.
I've got to go to Number 10, but I
absolutely give you my word. Good.
Look.
No, I didn't get any e-mail
about Roy Smedley.
Was it funny? Kind of.
It was a bit sweary.
Look, at least he served his
purpose - we've now got some very
useful material to trot out in case
my bloody Ballentine wants to know
why you've done a big U-turn
and are now in favour of inclusion.
I haven't! I'm taking a fucking
stand on this one, I'm buggered
if I'm gonna let you down.
I'm gonna tell the PM straight up,
this bill is a load of old bollocks.
No, you're not. No, but it'd be
great if I did, wouldn't it?
Another little bit of my soul
chipped away. Don't worry about it.
No, no, she's very religious...
I never once heard her swear.
Hugh, the Guardian website
has broken the e-mail thing.
The final edition
here of the Standard.
I am suddenly a major news story.
Sweary Woman Of Whitehall.
It's a pun, isn't it? It's not
really punning on anything, is it?
Not funny. How do you appear out of
nowhere in a building made of glass?
I'm a shape shifter.
Look, get this fucking sorted out.
You're not having a nervous
breakdown or something, are you?
Get on top of it, OK?
You will see me again.
Hugh, I don't want to be the story.
The Sun are running a cartoon with
you being arrested by a cunt-stable.
Don't be such a bastard. Whoa there,
turd-tonsils, we don't want any...
Hey, that's quite enough of that,
just knock it off, OK?
Terri, come here.
Just fucking pull yourself together
and act your age, we've had
enough of your puerile influence.
Actually, Hugh, I think I might
have an idea about...
Just... Just tell me, truthfully -
did you send that e-mail?
No, I didn't.
And you KNOW I didn't.
What? I'm sorry?
Are you...are you inferring that...?
Implying.
You're implying that...
it was me who...?
(I saw you, Hugh, I saw you do it.)
It was for Glenn, for our Glenn,
you know, to amuse him when that
prick man was in his office and I
just typed in the wrong address.
It was a genuine mistake.
I didn't really see you,
I was bluffing.
That doesn't bode well for your
Select Committee performance.
I knew you were bluffing.
I admitted it
because it's the right thing to do,
not because you caught me out.
And I caught you out,
cos you lied about seeing me do it.
So, how do you like them apples?
Are you going to admit to this
publicly?
What?! No, are you mad?
I can't do that.
That mustn't happen.
You've got, I need you to, to...
What, to lie? I think it was
Derrida who said there is no such
thing as actual, empirical truth...
I'll tell you what Derrida said,
he said, "Go fuck your face, Abbot!"
You need to mind your language, it
will keep getting you into trouble.
Can't even get out of
the fucking room!
Now to the meat
of the committee's interest.
You've made quite a U-turn on
SEN schools, haven't you, Minister?
Why have you sold out?
Sold out, that's rather an emotive
way of putting it.
You are on record as having been
very much in opposition to inclusion.
No, it's just that
times have changed and I have
reassessed...the landscape.
We now have the funding for
new academies which will have
two behaviour support teachers,
so these Super Schools
will offer skill clusters... Yes,
but we're not interested in that.
What the committee
are rather curious about is
how it is you've changed your mind,
given your absolute opposition
to this proposal in the past.
Did you seek specialist advice
on the subject?
Of course I sought expert advice.
Yes, and who?
Roy Smedley. And?
And...he was very good.
And his was the only advice you took?
You saw only one expert?
Yes.
And you thought that was enough?
Just one? I tried to find somebody
who said something different.
And did you succeed? No. No-one?
No.
How was that?
I lied to the Select Committee.
I lied. Is Tucker in the building?
Malcolm In The Middle. What?
Because he can stand in the middle of
the atrium and shout at everyone.
I don't want to see him.
I can't take one of his scenes
from the Exorcist now.
Ballentine's not on to anything.
Oh, no? Why did she keep asking,
"Just one expert, only one?"
"Not two experts? Less than three
but not two?" Fucking bitch.
She's trying to throw you off
balance, like a sumo wrestler.
It worked. I was on the floor
in a big fucking nappy.
Oh, shit, that's Malcolm.
A man in his fifties hiding.
He's gone. Look, Hugh, come out.
Get it in perspective.
It's not like it's a major lie.
It's not like you were selling
naval secrets down a gay club.
Why does he never laugh with me
like that?
Lack of click?
HUSHED VOICE: I thought I was
a professional press officer.
It just is absolute hell.
Hi, how is the...?
I'm actually in a bit of
a state here.
It's just that something cropped up
we need to talk about at the meeting
and then you can get on with
what ever you, you know...
Don't you think I'm due
a bit of support?
Yes, I do, absolutely, it's just
that my committee thing is actually
a bigger deal than your sweary
thing. It just is.
Malcolm, good to see you.
Were you hiding just now, Hugh? No.
Right, Terri, you're gonna give
a press conference in 90 minutes.
You're gonna apologise,
there's your statement, learn it.
I organise the press conferences,
I don't give them, normally.
OK, seeing as you're not used to
this, I'll go through it for you.
At a press conference,
a bunch of press people appear,
they're gonna have things called
cameras and microphones and
mobile phones and hangovers
then you will walk out and you're
going to read from what we call
a prepared statement.
You will say, "I'm really
fucking sorry for sounding like
a hairy-arsed docker after 12 pints,
"I promise that I will never call
an eight-year-old girl a cunt again.
"Can we just draw a line under this
and fucking move on? Thank you."
Everybody goes home
and then we wait and see.
You get to keep your job,
although you will forever be known as
The Sweary Woman Of Whitehall.
OLLIE: This first Mark Ryan meeting
would be in the diary.
Do you want to see if we could
post that down the memory hole?
Diaries do get lost, don't they?
We've lost a few diaries
in our time, haven't we?
Listen, do it subtly,
I don't wanna know about it.
I mean, do it, but don't tell me.
Do I know? Yeah. No. I don't know.
Do I know? Don't... You sort it out.
Do I know? Sort it out but don't
tell me you're sorting it out.
There isn't a chain.
I don't think you quite get it,
Malcolm. My life is in tatters,
nobody will speak to me
at my daughter's school.
Why should I lie for you?
Because
it's your job to make him look good!
What kind of a PR person are you?
Look, are you...? Hey, hey, hey.
Are you going to take a bad story
and make it worse?
Say, "Hi, everyone, I know this looks
bad but wait till you hear this!
"It was actually the Minister
for Social Affairs and Citizenship
who called a small child a cunt.
"So it really is very much
worse than we thought."
IF you were to go out there
and tell the truth,
it would be morally repugnant
because what you'd be doing is
condemning a guy who's doing his
fucking best to make things better,
you'd be condemning him
to the scrapheap.
Right... OK?
Yes. Good girl. Will you get Robyn?
Robyn,
can you help her go over her lines?
It was interesting watching you
talking about the truth et cetera,
cos I had a similar problem today.
Really? Yeah, at the committee,
I didn't, well, unwittingly
I didn't tell the entire truth.
You lied? To Claire Ballentine?
Yeah. Does she know?
I don't think so -
she couldn't possibly know.
Oh, well, it doesn't matter then.
I lied to the Select Committee -
it's like lying to the House.
Yeah, but if she doesn't know,
then it doesn't matter, Hugh.
I really can't be
fielding calls right now,
I've got a lot of lines to learn.
Claire Ballentine's office want
diaries from the last 12 weeks.
Shit! She's on to us, why else would
she...? Have you got the diaries?
Yes, in a sense.
Ollie might be doing something with
the diaries that I don't officially
know about because
he hasn't told me.
Well, you'd better get him to undo
what you don't know he's doing.
I can't, I don't know he's doing it.
Hugh,
go and get Ollie and Glenn in here.
This is really serious,
you have lied to a Select Committee.
I told you that.
That's like lying to the House!
That's what I said. Yeah, but
they're on to you! Yes...
Jesus Christ!
Malcolm, do you think this is
too bright? It's too bright!
Can you, please, Robyn, go down
to the Sketchley concession
and get my grey suit, now.
Do I look ten?
Do I look like I'm on some
bloody...? Please, just do it,
get the suit.
Can I have the money, please?
Don't you get paid?
Have you got the diaries?
Yes. I don't know. We shredded
some preliminary sections.
I don't wanna hear.
Hugh, take your fingers
out your fucking ears.
You're gonna go to the
Select Committee tomorrow
and apologise to them.
I'll tell them I forgot.
They can't have me for that, it's
an involuntary thing, like farting.
Malcolm!
What?! Malcolm,
you're meant to be dealing with me!
The worst that can happen
to you is you'll lose your job.
I'm gonna lose my reputation.
Just grow up, Terri.
YOU grow up.
I am a fucking grown up, thank you.
You could have fooled me.
Glenn's son could have fooled you.
No offence, Glenn. I'm sorry.
Will you two get this paper trail
sorted and get your story sorted out.
Could you stop swearing, please?
I'm really sorry, you won't hear
any more swearing from us,
you massive, gay SHITE!
Fuck off!
Right. How are you doing in
sorting out whether he lied
or not, everything OK?
Pretty well, yeah. Is that a lie?
Yeah. That is not
fucking funny, you retard.
I'm sorry about that, Glenn,
the situation just...
Here she comes.
'Good afternoon.'
Christ, there's that fucking sofa.
'I'd like to offer my sincere
and unreserved apologies
'for the terrible outrage
caused by the e-mail I sent.'
It was never meant
to be read by anybody other
than the intended recipient.
'I...understand that the...'
Oh, for...
What the hell's he...? Twat.
Perhaps he doesn't realise he's
walking in front of the camera.
'..to use language like that in an
internal departmental conversation
'or any conversation.
"..any conversation."
'I wish I had never sent
the e-mail...' What?
'and indeed I find it hard
to believe that I did.'
Whoa, whoa, whoa - she's gone off
script here. Fucking hell, Terri...
'..a momentary lapse in restraint
'and that...' OK, we're back
on track. Yeah, thank God.
'..and I wish to apologise
that I have let down'
the electorate,
the Minister, my colleagues,
'my own family...'
Even though half of them are dead.
'..and indeed the voters of
the future...' "..Our children."
'..our children.' Now get off.
Yeah, brilliant, Malcolm, well done.
Fucking stunning.
Well, done. Well, done.
OK, we've got to get upstairs,
start rehearsing for tomorrow's
select committee.
Absolutely. I'm never going to get
out of this fucking building, am I?
D'you remember when I came down to
see Peter's concert at his school?
His face,
the pride he had when he played,
his face is etched in my memory.
Yeah? Yeah. Fucking unbearable,
that's why I needed Malcolm's expert
to try and wipe it from my mind.
Hasn't really worked though.
Oh, Hugh, mate,
don't panic, you'll manage,
just do what you have to do.
Whatever you have to do, you know,
do it.
Just make sure that you don't
get sweat on your upper lip,
makes you look guilty.
What am I supposed to do?
I've no idea.
But if you sweat it makes
your face look like spam.
It has come to the Committee's notice
that, um, you did not see just one
special advisor as you told us in
your previous appearance, but two.
Why did you omit to
mention that fact?
Yes, I, I apologise unreservedly
for that oversight. I-I forgot.
Are you forgetful generally?
Well, it's, er, hard to know, um,
how forgetful one is because
you'd have to remember all
the things that you'd remembered
and all the things that you'd
forgotten in order to compare
and how could I remember what I've
forgotten, cos I've forgotten it.
I'm pretty good on the whole -
if I see a picture of the Queen,
I can put a name to her face.
And if I see a movie, I don't sit
there going "Oh, who's that one, is
that the cop or is that the pirate?"
So you just accidentally
told a slight untruth.
I...my statement was unintentionally
not a truthful statement, I-I-I
slightly misled the committee.
You completely misled.
I misled the committee and I,
and I've apologised for that.
Are you lying to me now
about not lying to me before?
No, no, I am not a liar.
I categorically did not knowingly
not tell the truth.
Even though, unknowingly,
I might not have done.
In fact, I wanted to come back
and apologise to the Committee.
Very glad to be of service,
but you didn't want to come back to
this Committee, did you?
You were told to come back.
I am sure the last thing you wanted
to do was to come back given
how busy you have been recently.
In fact, interestingly enough,
we do notice from your diaries
that your meeting with Roy Smedley
seems to have taken place at
almost exactly the same time as the
now notorious sweary e-mail was sent.
I was in that meeting, so I couldn't
possibly have sent it.
I wasn't suggesting...
it was your chief press officer.
Yes, yes, it was,
and her father's just died, yep.
I'm very sorry to hear that.
No-one was suggesting...
No, and quite right too, but
you know what people are like.
Going back to my initial concern, it
would now seem that the two meetings
that you had with the two special
education advisors provided you
with two opposing verdicts.
Yes. And yet you came up with one,
so would it be therefore true to say
that the government is intent
on pushing this through,
regardless of what anyone says?
No. We wanted two opinions
because we wanted to start a debate.
Not much of a debate if you ignore
one and just go with the other.
It's a personal thing,
but if government isn't personal,
then what the hell is it?
My senior advisor
Glenn Cullen has a son,
his name is Peter and he has
special educational needs.
Glenn obviously wouldn't
say anything about it,
he's far too professional.
But I had the privilege
of going down with Glenn
to Peter's SEN school
and watched Peter playing
the trombone in the school orchestra.
It wasn't very good...
um...struggled manfully,
and Glenn leaned over to me
and he said,
"If only this was a Super School,
"inclusion is not an illusion".
And, er...
I think that tipped
the balance for me.
It's a personal thing.
Look, say something.
Well, what is to say?
I can't believe you did that.
You were the one who said
do what you have to do.
I understand that and I know
nothing is sacred but I didn't mean
for you to do that.
Then why were you...
were you misleading me?
Oh, don't give me that bollocks.
Look, I'm sorry, OK?
I'm really sorry.
D'you know, I wish I'd kept
Peter's trombone because if I had,
I would shove it up your arse
right now, wide end first.
Listen, you're the best senior
advisor anybody could want and...
Come on, you're my best pal. OK.
So are you...? Am I...?
Hello. You all right?
Very strong performance,
by the way, the apology.
You think you can get around me
with compliments now?
I'm not your favourite chocolate in
the box, I just wanted to say
I appreciate everything and
whatever happens, I will fight for
you, irrespective of what you did.
What I did?
I didn't do it Hugh, d'you remember?
You sent the e-mail.
I'm sorry, I forgot. Forgot?!
No, I just can't get anything right,
I'm going to shut my mouth
and go away.
Hugh, go to the gents, please,
look at the man who's standing in
front of you in the mirror and say,
"Can I live with him, can I?"
You're in there.
What else can go wrong?
Unless the energy system sets fire
to my office and puts it out
by squirting human shit
through the sprinklers.
Malcolm's coming this way. Oh, God.
Hugh, check it out - Malcolm
Tucker is leaving the building.
Oh, right, yeah. Oh, I just wanted
to say, well done, you slippery fuck.
Should be able to weasel out of this
smelling like a perfumed trollop.
Thank you. No problem.
Hey, I'm going to have a swear box
installed on Monday, by the way.
What? Fucking joking, you twat.
Right. I'm in turbo.
Laters.
Oi, how you doing?
Goodnight. Night.
e-mail us at subtitling@bbc.co.uk